So it's possible you'll find yourself
in a situation where you'll need to edit a file
and, but you don't have your normal kind of GUI,
something like a Mac or Windows or whatever.
I would typically go for something like Sublime.
You might use another programme.
But let's say that you've somehow connected
to another machine,
or you don't have the other tools
that you're used to,
and you need to edit a file.
Now, from the Command Line, there are a few options.
And this doesn't guarantee any of them are installed.
Most systems have them installed by default.
Certainly your Mac will have a bunch of them
installed by default,
but there are three editors that I would consider.
The first one is Vim, or Vi, as I tend to think of it.
Vi is like an early version.
Vim is Vi Improved or something like that,
Vim Improved.
It's not particularly intuitive,
but it's the one that I'm most used to,
and I'm going to show you just a couple of commands.
Most common gripe with Vim,
if you search the web,
is quitting Vim, actually being able to leave.
It can be tricky if you don't know the command,
and you just get stuck inside of there.
Another one is Emacs.
There is, if you're familiar
with the tabs-versus-spaces argument,
Vim versus Emacs is a very old, long-running
similar kind of war or clash of two groups.
So Emacs is another editor.
I actually have never really used Emacs at all,
and I had a quick go with this.
Talk about stuck inside of it as well.
And similar, has a lot of key combinations
that you need to know to be able to navigate.
But the third one is called Nano,
which is actually a lot more user friendly
when it comes to being able to navigate.
So I'm just going to show you Vim and Nano,
and if you are forced to make a choice,
I would recommend using Nano
just to kind of jump in and out.
But if you wanted to learn more about Vim,
there is loads of information on the web,
and I'll include a few links as well.
Vim alone could take up three hours' worth of learning.
Vi and Vim are the same command. If you don't have Vi or Vim
on your Mac, or your Linux machine, or your Windows machine,
you can instal them.
And we're going to edit a file.
So I've got some of these default files
from previous videos.
I have some syntax highlighting already built in.
You may not have highlighting built in.
You may see a white version of this,
rather, just white text.
I'm using the cursor keys to move my cursor around.
Because there's only one line,
I can't go up and down.
If I try and type,
nothing really happens because at the moment,
I'm in Command Mode.
If I want to change any text,
I need to insert some text,
I need to go into Text Mode.
And the way that I would typically do that
is press the I key.
And now I'm able to edit.
So I can make some changes.
You can see that Enter does something.
I'm gonna put in a comment.
This is a comment.
From here, quitting is really the hard part
because I'm not in Edit Mode.
I need to go back to Command Mode to quit Vim.
So I'm gonna hit Escape.
Escape is how you always go back to Command Mode.
You can see the cursor's actually on top of the character
I think, when I go in to insert.
Oh no, it's the same with my keyboard.
So I'm back in Command Mode.
I've pressed Escape.
And there's two things that you might want to do.
One is saving, and one is quitting.
If I try and quit now,
there's a warning saying there's some changes.
If I want to Force Quit, I can do--
Sorry, see, to run commands, you need a colon,
and down there in the corner, I can do Q + !,
and that will do a Force Quit.
It would discard my changes.
Something I'm very used to doing is
: + W + Q. W means writes the file, and Q means
quit the programme at the same time.
So W will write that file, and make that change.
And if I make another change--
this is another change--
I can do : + W + Q and it will exit and write that file.
So if I cat that file out,
you can see there's the change.
So that's Vi.
Opening it, inserting, so I to insert the cursor
to start typing, Escape to quit, to go back
to the Command Line,
and : + W + Q is pretty much the way
you always want to go out.
Nano, a lot friendlier.
So Nano,
you can see, first of all,
right at the bottom are the commands.
And you start off in Insert Mode,
so I can delete text,
the way that you'd probably expect
to be able to delete in Sublime or something like that.
I've made some changes here.
The caret down at the bottom
where it says ^X,
that is the Control Key.
So if I press Control + X to exit,
notice there is no save here.
I'm sure there are more commands
tucked away, but what we're really looking to do
is just save and exit.
Control + X, and then it asks me do I want to go ahead
and save my changes,
so I can cancel, yes or no.
It's much more GUI-like.
So yes, I wanna make the changes,
asks me what file name.
I'm just gonna write existing file, press Enter.
And I've quit.
And if we cat that out,
we can see the change has been made.
If you do get into this pickle
where you have to use an editor,
Nano is probably the best route to go.
You may need to instal Nano,
so brew instal nano,
or if you're on a Unix machine,
you might need to do apt-get instal nano.
Same goes for Windows.
Then you'll have Nano if you don't have it already.
We now know how to quit some programmes.
And Emacs is there if you want to have a play.
I'm not a fan, mostly because I don't even know
how to quit Emacs.
So I'll be here trying to quit Emacs,
whilst you can move on to the next video.